Received Signal Strength (RSS)

The project will be a joint venture between a research group from University
Politehnica of Bucharest (UPB) as coordinator and the IT Center for Science and Technology (CITST)
as SME partner. 


• data acquisition is enhanced from manual to an automated process;
• it operates as much as possible in an unsupervised way (least number of initial assumptions on
the layout of the setup); 

 sensitivity to environment changes such as object moving
into the building (e.g., people, furniture)

For example, the robot finds the user by getting from his mobile device the radio signature; 
the user can load the map constructed by the robot on his smartphone and use it for guidance





offline and an online
The first step 1(a) in the offline stage is to map the target area, by collecting
fingerprints in multiple locations. A fingerprint consists of a three dimensional position and a vector
containing the Media Access Control (MAC) address and Received Signal Strength (RSS) of each
visible access points at that positions. 

In the online stage the positioning is done by measuring the RSS
vector at the current location 2(a) using any WLAN receiver. In the next step 2(b) an approximate
location is calculated by comparing the MAC addresses of the currently visible access points and
the access points seen in each cluster. 

In the online stage the positioning is done by measuring the RSS
vector at the current location 2(a) using any WLAN receiver. In the next step 2(b) an approximate
location is calculated by comparing the MAC addresses of the currently visible access points and
the access points seen in each cluster. 

PRACTIC ANTRENARE SI TESTARE

Indoor WLAN measurement data in two four-floor buildings for indoor positioning studies



oamenii au incerca si triangularea
where the emitter position is known, in here the AP positions within a building are typically unknown and
need to be estimated beforehand, in the training stage.

In all these probabilistic PL approaches, we have to solve a two-step estimation problem: 1) In the training phase, being given the database xi,y i,z i,Pi,ap, estimate the AP positions [ˆ xap, ˆ yap, ˆ zap] and the TAP AP parameters (vector of length M). 
For example, with 200 AP per building and a 2parameter path-loss model, we only need to store 5 parameters per AP, namely [ˆ xap, ˆ yap, ˆ zap,PTap,nap]. Thus, in this example

 PTap nap], where PTap is the ap-th AP transmit power and nap is the path-loss coef?cient of the apth AP. Those two parameters are related to the RSS via: Pi,ap = PTap -10naplog10di,ap + ?i,ap, 


Create a synthetic grid [xi,y i,z i],i =1,...,N per building. This can be created for example based on maximum and mimimum coordinates stored for that building [xmin,xmax,ymin,ymax,zmin,zmax], 

 All measurements were performed with a Windows tablet with WLAN receiver, where the user was selecting his/her own position via the touch screen, using the available building map on the tablet

 deconvolution approaches 
FLOOR DETECTION PROBABILITY Pd
